Add metric name conflict and overshadowing section (#38701)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/metrics/distributions.md

{{< img src="metrics/distributions/dist_manage.jpg" alt="Configuring tags on a distribution with the Manage Tags button" style="width:80%;">}}

## Metric name conflicts and overshadowing

Distribution metrics store data differently from non-distribution types (count, rate, gauge, histogram). If the same metric name receives both distribution and non-distribution data, Datadog's query system prioritizes the distribution data. This behavior is called **overshadowing**.

No data is lost, because both timeseries are stored. However, queries return only the distribution data, so the non-distribution timeseries is invisible. Overshadowing takes effect from the moment the first distribution datapoint arrives.

### Symptoms of overshadowing

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Overshadowing typically presents in one of the following ways:

```

Reviewer: Minor addition for consistency with other sections (such as the "Avoid overshadowing" section), and also to clarify that only *one* of these conditions needs to be present, rather than all three

* A metric's tags or data appear to change suddenly, without you making any configuration changes.
* You receive this error when updating a tag configuration through the metrics API:

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```text
```

    New tag-configuration conflicts with existing configuration for <METRIC_NAME>
    ```

> * A metric reports as a different type than expected (for example, you expect `count` but see `distribution`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A metric reports as a different type than expected (for example, you expect `count` but see `distribution`).

To confirm a metric's current type, see the [Metrics Summary page][4].
```

Reviewer: Might be helpful to link users to where they can check this

### Avoid overshadowing

Metric names must be unique across types. Follow these practices to prevent conflicts:

* **Distinct names**: Never reuse a metric name across distribution and non-distribution submissions.
* **Log-based metrics**: Because log-based metrics always submit as distributions, verify the metric name you choose does not already exist as a count, gauge, rate, or histogram metric.

> * **Retired names**: After a metric name has been used for one type, do not later reuse it for the other type, in either direction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Metric names must be unique across types, in either direction. Two cases are easy to miss:

* **Log-based metrics**: Because log-based metrics always submit as distributions, verify the metric name you choose does not already exist as a count, gauge, rate, or histogram metric.
* **Retired names**: A name that no longer receives data is still claimed by its original type. Do not reuse it for a different type.
```

Reviewer: Looks like my previous suggestion actually introduced some additional issues (bullets 1 and 3 are redundant). This suggestion should clarify it.

### Resolve overshadowing

If your metric is already overshadowed, you must choose to keep either the **distribution** data or the **non-distribution** data. You cannot retain both under the same metric name.

Contact [Datadog Support][6] with:

* The affected metric names

> * Which data type you want to preserve

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The data type you want to preserve
```

{{< img src="metrics/distributions/dist_manage.jpg" alt="Configuring tags on a distribution with the Manage Tags button" style="width:80%;">}}

## Metric name conflicts and overshadowing

> Distribution metrics store data differently from non-distribution types (count, rate, gauge). If the same metric name receives both distribution and non-distribution data, Datadog's query system automatically gives preference to the distribution data. **This is called overshadowing.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Distribution metrics store data differently from non-distribution types (count, rate, gauge, histogram). If the same metric name receives both distribution and non-distribution data, Datadog's query system prioritizes the distribution data. This behavior is called **overshadowing**.
```

Reviewer: Adding `histogram` for consistency with [line 23](https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/blob/0f24233890cc44318e68547536ae24cca7cf8a04/content/en/metrics/distributions.md?plain=1#L23), and updated the bolding so that it's only on the key term, which is mentioned in the [style guide](https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#text)

> No data is lost (both timeseries are stored) but queries return only the distribution data, making the non-distribution timeseries invisible. Overshadowing takes effect from the moment the first distribution datapoint arrives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No data is lost, because both timeseries are stored. However, queries return only the distribution data, so the non-distribution timeseries is invisible. Overshadowing takes effect from the moment the first distribution datapoint arrives.
```

> ### Common symptoms

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Symptoms of overshadowing
```

> * A metric's tags or data appear to change suddenly, without any configuration change on your end.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A metric's tags or data appear to change suddenly, without you making any configuration changes.
```

Reviewer: "on your end" is slightly colloquial and may not translate well

> * You receive this error when updating a tag configuration with the Metrics without Limits API:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You receive this error when updating a tag configuration through the metrics API:
```

Reviewer: Suggesting this update since there's no "Metrics without Limits" API, just the "Metrics" API:
https://docs.datadoghq.com/api/latest/metrics/

If you feel that Metrics without Limits needs to be mentioned here, it will need the `™` character appended as a legal requirement.

    ```
    New tag-configuration conflicts with existing configuration for <METRIC_NAME>
    ```

> * A metric reports as a different type than expected (for example, you expect `distribution` but see `count`, or vice versa).

Reviewer: Since distributions are mentioned as taking precedence, wouldn't this be "you expect `count` but see `distribution`"?

Author: yep that's correct! i can go ahead and change this

> * You submit a Logs-based metric with a name that matches an existing custom metric. Logs-based metrics always emit as distributions, which immediately triggers overshadowing.

Reviewer: This doesn't seem to be a "symptom", but rather a cause. Looks like this covers the same content as line `138`. Could you please confirm, and consolidate this into line 138 as applicable?

Author: I removed line 131. Lines 128-130 are symptoms so I left those for now!

> * You submit a Logs-based metric with a name that matches an existing custom metric. Logs-based metrics always emit as distributions, which immediately triggers overshadowing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You submit a log-based metric with a name that matches an existing custom metric. Log-based metrics always emit as distributions, which immediately triggers overshadowing.
```

> ### How to avoid overshadowing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Avoid overshadowing
```

Metric names must be unique across types. Follow these practices to prevent conflicts:

> * **Use distinct names for distribution metrics.** Never reuse a metric name across distribution and non-distribution submissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Distinct names**: Never reuse a metric name across distribution and non-distribution submissions.
```

Reviewer: Suggesting to reduce the bolding to only key terms here, and in the following list items. This pattern improves scannability and accessibility.

> * **Check for existing metrics before creating Logs-based metrics.** Since Logs-based metrics always submit as distributions, verify the metric name you choose does not already exist as a count, gauge, or rate metric.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Log-based metrics**: Because log-based metrics always submit as distributions, verify the metric name you choose does not already exist as a count, gauge, rate, or histogram metric.
```

> * **Do not reuse a retired distribution metric name.** If you stop submitting distribution data for a name, do not later use that name for a non-distribution metric, or vice versa.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Retired names**: After a metric name has been used for one type, do not later reuse it for the other type, in either direction.
```

> ### Resolving overshadowing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Resolve overshadowing
```

> If your metric is already overshadowed, you must choose to keep either the **distribution** data or the **non-distribution** data. It is not possible to retain both under the same metric name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your metric is already overshadowed, you must choose to keep either the **distribution** data or the **non-distribution** data. You cannot retain both under the same metric name.
```

Contact [Datadog Support][6] with:

> * The metric name(s) affected

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The affected metric names
```

> * Which data type you want to preserve going forward

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Which data type you want to preserve
```

> After the conflict is resolved, rename any future submissions to help ensure the metric name is used for only one type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the conflict is resolved, rename the metric in any future submissions to help ensure each metric name is used for only one type.
```
